The entry point to ASP.NET application is program.cs file. When we run the project, the code first runs this program.cs file.

It creates "WebApplication builder" class(var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);), which we can then use to inject the dependencies into the
services collection. (builder.Services.AddControllers();, builder.Services.AddSwaggerGen();)

We then configure HTTP request pipeline and finally run the application. After this, our API is running and listening  to any client that calls its endpoints.


APPSETTING.JSON FILE: The appsetting.json file is an application configuration file used to store configuration settings. such as database connection strings,
any application scope, global variables and etc.

Contoller folder: hold the APIs in the form of API controllers. ASP.NET Core supports creating restfull services, also known as WEBAPIs using C#.
To handle requests a webAPI uses controllers, Controllers in WEB-API classes that derives from the "ControllerBase" Class. Controllers have HTTP methods
like get, post, put, delete and patch.

A RestAPI also known as Restfull API is an API that conforms to the constraints or REST archietectural style and allows for interaction with restfull
web services. When a client request is made while rest API, it transfers a representation of the state of the resource to the endpoint. This information is
delivered in one or several formats via HTTP protocol.The most common format is JASON data format.

GET calls can be made directly from the browser as well, but it cannot make POST call directly. For POST calls we will need a client like Swagger or Postman.

A GUID (globally unique identifier) is a 128-bit text string that represents an identification (ID). Organizations generate GUIDs when a unique reference 
number is needed to identify information on a computer or network. A GUID can be used to ID hardware, software, accounts, documents and other items.

Entity Framework Core is a modern object database mapper for dot net. It supports linq queries, change trackings updates and schema migrations. EF Core 
works with many databases including SQL, Donor Base, SQLite, mySQL, etc.

DBContext Class: DBContext instance represents a session with the database and it can be used to query and save instances of your entities. Basically, we
use DBContext class as a way to query and persist our data to the database.
    ---- Create DbContext options and this will be of type the class so that it knows which DBContext we are talking about: pass it to the base class. 
    ---- public NZWalksDbContext(DbContextOptions<NZWalksDbContext> options): base(options)
	
    ---- Once done it is now time to create three propertities of basically DB set types.
	-  public DbSet<Region> Regions { get; set; }
	   By creating this property we are telling entity framework that please create a region table for us, If it doesn't exists in the database. This
	   is a connection or property that tells you that you can now talk to the Region table.
	-public DbSet<Walk> Walks { get; set; }
	-public DbSet<WalkDifficulty> walkDifficulty { get; set; }


Entity Framework Migration is used to create table in SQL Server using connection defined in appsettings. Commands - Add-migration -Name: InitialMigration.
It will create folder migration and contains two files. 
Command: Update-Database - will use the migration files and update the database or create database for us.

pacakge manager console: add-migration "Folder Name"
To execute and create tables in SQL Server: update-database

DEPENDECNY INJECTION: is a software design pattern , which is a technique for achieving inversion of control between classes and their dependencies.
In this pattern, the dependencies of a class are injected into them rather than the class directly creating them. 

We make use of Interfaces.
We then register dependencies in a service container that ASP.NET Core provides and, 
Inject the service into the constructor of the class.

SO, 1: We will create IMyDependency interface first.
    2: then, we will create an implementation of the IMyDependency interface.
    3: then , we will inject the dependency into the service collection. (Program.cs)
    4: finally, we will inject the service into the class that wants to use it.


REPOSITORY PATTERN :

In an API solution without repository, the controller directly calls the DBContext and the DBContext calls the database. Considered as bad practise as the 
code is not testable and if we want to change the implementation of not using the entity framework but something else.for ex: Stored Procedures then we will
have to make changes to the controller. This is not ideal.

With repositories, We can create I-repository interface and then implement a repository which in turn calls the database. Then we can inject these
repositories into the service collection and using dependency injection we can inject repositories into controllers. Therefore, controller does not depend
on the implementation of how data is coming back from the database. 

IRepository is an Interface
Repository class is an implementation of that interface.
A class that implements interface must implement all the members of that interface.


The Domain models which are model domain, define how our domain looks like, If in future if we want to change the domain model or some property of the domain
model to be different. Then the exposed property from the controller to the client will be changed and that will be breaking change for the client of the API
This is a bad practise. The clients of the API should never get breaking changes in the current version of the API that they are using. The clients can have
breaking changes as part of a newer version of the API, but not the current version.

DTO's: Data transfer objects: These are models that are exposed to the outside world. These can be similar to the domain models or different. The main 
purpose of DTO's is to pass data.

Automapper is third party library, that gives us the ability to map objects from source to destination. 
Profile is basically a way to tell the application that we have a code that is mapping the models for us. 

Synchronous and Asynchronous:
In Synchornous operations tasks are performed one at a time and only when one is completed. The following is unblocked, In other words you need to wait for
a task to finish to move to the next one.

In Asynchronous operations, we can move to another task before the previous one finishes. This way, with asynchronous programming we are able to deal with
multiple requests simultaneously, thus completing more task in shorter period of time. 
